
Final Words: 
I always look forward to the last two days of class in which I can learn from your experiences and observations. All of the presentations were well done and well presented. Each one was individualistic, based on the collective contributions of the members. Each focused on different aspects of your stay here. Only one focused on the interviews, which I was surprised at, but also grateful for. 
Here are some of my highlights from your presentations. From the first group, Chun Lin¡¯s cleanliness and privacy concerns with American bathrooms were enlightening. Haoyun Chien¡¯s knowledge of love of baseball and admiration for its players were impressive. Jun Shiang¡¯s conclusion rang true: enjoy your life, make friends and keep on learning! In group two, Changkun delivered an inspiring introduction to the theme of 10,000 miles and 10,000 books and from which one can learn more. I hadn¡¯t heard the expression ¡®Sino-US relations¡¯ in years! He pointed out how Americans will make comments while someone is talking, like ¡®Perfect¡¯ or ¡°Awesome¡± to show they are listening. We are also uncomfortable with silence, especially when it¡¯s our own! Jason hit the jackpot when he and a friend stumbled across the Seattle Torchlight Parade. It is true Americana (Five syllables as opposed to the FOUR in A-MER-I-CA.) at its best: marching bands, singing and precision dancing with rollerboards, the while kit and caboodle! Ziliang spoke of his being impressed with the politeness here (which we are taught at home) and how animals and humans get along so compatibly. I had never thought of it that way. Finally, Yaofeng went on to talk about her impressions of living in a Coed dormitory and how the interviewing process went. She brought up common issues of racial discrimination and gun safety. It¡¯s a sad state of affairs when one has to think of packing a bullet-proof vest when preparing to go to another country. I appreciated her honesty and ability to be critical in a non-insulting manner.
Not to be outdone, on day two of the Final Reports, group three knocked my socks off with its uber-organization! EFLT, ELFT, LEFT! Ming had three of everything, models, kinds of pressure and goals. Not to mention the differences, which were more freedom, knowledge density and interaction. Imagine my surprise when he shattered one of my stereotypes which was Chinese students were the hardest workers in the world!  I was glad that both he and Jason, among others, referred to the humor which I feel is so important in life! Mark commented on how pluralistic American food habits were. I remember growing up, one day we¡¯d have Chinese food, another day Mexican food, then some German food from my culture and farm food, which consisted of fresh vegetables from the garden and fresh meat from the livestock. He too was impressed by the animals here and concluded with the wish that he had talked to more native speakers. Yixuan made me laugh about how shoes are washed here and back in China. Again cleanliness is a difference. I remember my mom washing shoes, but we lived on a farm. I polish my work shoes from time to time, but I rarely wash my sports shoes! I wear them to death and then give them away! I have to differ about make-up, however. A beauty blog is not what you see in the streets and I think you¡¯ll have to agree that Seattle women wear very little make-up, especially students. Finally, Ken or Chun-yi showed us his interest in cars by talking about getting around and sports cars. There is a great Car Museum in Tacoma and an even greater one in the country to the east where the Parker family shows off their huge car collection. Yes, the US is big enough not only to have huge trucks, but to collect different models and be able to store them somewhere. By the way, we find loud music from cars annoying, too, but it IS an expression of personality and uniqueness, so we let it slide!  Last, but not least, the last group focused on their interviews and I really appreciated this different approach. Jeff started out with a definition of individualism versus collectivism. He used the Marvel movies as an example of promoting individualism, and lately the equality of the sexes with Wonder Woman and a Female Captain America. His other examples were equally as interesting. Huixuan introduced the interview questions that were asked of American passers by. I have to correct her about her assumption that the Harry Potter characters were American. They were British, like the author! That would explain why no one here wore those uniforms you saw in the movies. You¡¯d be more likely to see them in England!  The analysis of the strange and special attire one sees on the street and people¡¯s reactions were enlightening to me. I could tell which interviewees were more conservative. (They were the ones which thought strange was bad or even unhealthy.) Xinlou analyzed the last two questions about forms of conversation style, which I could imagine, but had never heard before. Basketball and Ping Pong? I was amazed to hear that 100% of those interviewed would prefer a collective family environment. I can see some evolution here back to our former lifestyles. Finally, Xiaosheng¡¯s conclusion was that this group felt that individualism was not as typical as they had thought and the conversation style is more like that of the Chinese. Culture is shaped by language. I have long known that, being a linguist myself.  Bravo to you all for all your hard work and analysis of your time here! 
Many of you already realize that one gets a skewed impression of a country just by visiting a university at one of them for a quarter. Seattle is a small, liberal city on the West coast with a diverse population. Most cities in the US will be diverse, but not all are liberal. Many are much bigger. A lot are smaller and more conservative. Imagine if I only went to Shanghai, or Taipei or Beijing and what I experienced there in seven weeks would be my experience of China. I would have good and not so good experiences. I wish you could hear my impressions afterwards, like I was able to on these last two days. Here are some more specific comments.
I was heartened by hearing positive attributes of my fellow countrymen. Over the years, I have become very jaded and disappointed with the ¡®average lazy, apathetic American.¡¯ Though I don¡¯t personally know anyone like that, I¡¯m afraid that I have been influenced by social media. It does a heart good, therefore, to hear that there are still a majority of good people out there. This was one conclusion I gleened from your Final Projects. 
Unlike mainland China, Macao, Taiwan, Hong Kong and its other historical and political components, the United States is a relatively new country. There are those who say that we are in our young adulthood these days. We do not have the advantage of having a grandparent country to give us advice. We have always made mistakes and will continue to do so way into the future. Hopefully, we can learn from some of these mistakes. I think we have evolved as a country and will continue to evolve. Our earlier collectivism gave way to more individualism, which is now moving back to more collectivism again. Unfortunately, some of our past mistakes like slavery of the Africans, genocide of the Native Americans, internment of the Japanese during WWII and now the separation of Hispanic families as an attempt to curb illegal immigration. These sins are not easily forgiven. They are the basis of many of our social problems today: racism, white privilege, gang violence and even homelessness. Many have called this country ¡°The American Experience.¡± It¡¯s an experiment in living together that has never been tried on such a grand scale before. It is not easy. It has it has its ups and downs. A movie that comes to mind is ¡°Auntie Mame¡± with Rosalind Russell. It¡¯s an older movie, but its themes still apply.
On a good day, when I am not so negative on my fellow countrymen, I can agree to some of the positive generalizations that some of you observed. I agree that we as a people value humor and individuality. You experienced some of the former in your teachers¡¯ behaviors in class and in the Democratic debates. You experienced the latter also in class and in the debates, but also in observing Americans going about their everyday lives. We Seattlelites reflect human nature in that we are curious about strangers and generally are polite and respectful of others. This is not always reflected in other areas, especially in the countryside or in small towns where people can be suspicious of strangers and consequently, not so polite or respectful. I believe that is also human nature.
A conference speaker once talked about travel beyond your hometown and safety zone. He imagined a time when an extended family and relations were sitting around a fire, when suddenly one stood up, said, ¡®I have had enough of this. I want to see what else is out there,¡± and promptly left his group. She, he or they were the first travelers. Travel does not suit everyone. On my father¡¯s side of the family, every child but one left to seek their fortune in other parts of the country. From them I learned a sense of adventure and individualism. On the other side, all of my mother¡¯s siblings stayed within 30 miles of where they were born. From them, I learned the importance of home and stability...collectivism. I value both sides of me, even when they come in conflict. When I am set to go on an adventure and suddenly, I just want to stay home with my cat and plants! 
